current affairs for capf, rbi grade b

January

1.  Mou between india and usa for net zero carbon emission for railways

2. Rangpo station inaugurated in Sikkim

3. iron deposits found at karauli , rajasthan

4. cyprus - Eratosthenes(underwater canyon found )

5. regional centres of sangeet natak academi name Dakshin bharat sanskritik kendra in Hyderabad by ministry of culture.

6. Niti ayog release LPG as transportation fuel for truck and heavy vehicles.

7. highest railway bridge has been constructed on chenab river.

8. Shumang Leela 'natak' from Manipur faces challenge due to ethnical violence

9.  UAE recently dropped from FATF financial crime list

10. Indian Navy's Fast Attack Craft INS Kabra arrived at Colombo, Sri Lanka on 08 Jan 24   // defence

-- first Indian 'sumit nagal'to defeat a seeded player at a grand slam

-- Andhra Pradesh 2nd state to do caste based census after bihar



***************March 2024

1.Eunectes Akiyama - largest python found on earth

2. expert committee for great Indian bustard

3. bugun tribe(west kameng district AP) donated land to forest department

4. noctis volcano on mars

5. kalam 250 - skyroot aerospace

6. pushpak - india RLV - relaunch land vehicle
7. recently neolithic child burial site has been discovered at TN

8. simon harris youngest PM of Ireland.

9. 14th president of Pakistan - asif ali jardari

10. Agalega island present in Mauritius.

11. Finland happiest country as per world happiness index report, un sustainable development framework publishes that report

12. China announced new territorial sea basin in the gulf of Tonkin(originally part of Vietnam).

13. Maharashtra first state to buy land in J & K.

15 Saksham App launched by Election commission for people with disabilities.

***The 'PM-SURAJ' national portal aims to uplift the most marginalized sections of society and provide credit assistance to one lakh entrepreneurs from disadvantaged communities.
  --It is implemented by the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment and its departments.

*** NAMASTE
--The NAMASTE Scheme is a central Sector Scheme formulated in 2022, by the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment (MoSJE) and the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs (MoHUA).

--It aims to ensure safety, dignity, and sustainable livelihoods for urban sanitation workers.


*** UNNATI 2024  - by ministry of commerce and industry 

16- Prabha verma received Saraswati samman in 2023 for his novel 'Roudra sathwikam'

17. Suman kumari has become first snipper of BSF.     // defence

18- Indian navy is set to commison MH 60 R seahawk helicopter at INS Garuda , Kochi     // defence

19. First installation of artificial coral reefs in Puducherry

20. Second installation of artificial coral reefs in worli. tri service defence station in Mumbai

21. Zimbabwe declared state of disaster due to devastating drought induced by El Nino

22. National emergency at Sierra Leone due to drugs

23. india gained control over Sittwe port in Myanmar

24. 2024 Ocean Decade conference was held in Barcelona

25. india defence export increased by 32.5 % in FY 2023-24 , 21083 rs

-- sumit nagal - tennis

26 - Calisto is Jupiter 2nd largest moon

27- Bharat biotech started clinical trial of MTB vaccine for tuberculosis 

28- Originating from the Kutch region of Gujarat, Ajrakh sarees received GI tag

29- Jaapi from assam and assamese dhol also received GI tag

30 Cyclone Remal , name given by oman , remal means sand.

31- cyclone Hidaya - hit Tanzania - name given by France

32- AK 203 - assault riffle and IGLA very short range air defense system india procured  by Russia

33. Highest polling both in Maharashtra - Raireshwar fort

34. This specialized firefighting technique involves suspending a container beneath a helicopter, filling it from a water source, and then releasing it over the fire zone. Bambi Buckets are vital for tackling wildfires in inaccessible areas.

35- Venezuela first country to lose all its glaciers
     humbolt glacier(La corona) in Venezuela has melted

36 - 'Cyril ramphosa' elected president of South Africa

37- 'A fly on the RBI wall; book authored by Alpana Kilawala
38 - Kheer Bhawani mela was held in J & K

39-  Indian farmer- Land hero award by united nation is 'Siddhesh Sakore' - 17 June - world desertification and drought day

40- Bharat - IORA Cruise Tourism conference - 2024 in Delhi

41- 'Mission Nischay' to curb demand and supply of drugs by Punjab Police 

42- Gandhi sagar wildlife sanctuary in Madhya Pradesh.

43- Deep ocean mission by ministry of Earth sciences.
-- Rudram 2 anti radiation missile tested by DRDO           // defence

**World earth day- 22 April - planet vs plastic

***world  heritage day - 18 April - discover and experience diversity

***world  health day - 7 April - my health my right

***global liveability index by Economics intelligence unit

***global peace index by Institute for Economics and peace

44- Kolkata high court orders 1 % reservation for transgender.

45- keir starmer new pm of uk replacing Rishi shunak.

46- Lake girl scheme in Maharastra

47- Denmark first country to impose livestock emission tax.

48- Challa Srinivasulu appointed new chairman of SBI

49 AI preparedness index by IMF- india rank is 72

50- Global AI summit -2023 organised by Ministry of IT and electronics.

51-Lyon masters chess championship - 2024 award by Vishwanathan Anand.
52- NTR Bharosha pension scheme started by Andhra Pradesh.

53- India has become first country to prepare checklist of wildlife -104561 species.

54- Ahom moidam(mound of grave) included in world heritage list, The Moidams of Assam, the Mound-Burial System of the Ahom Dynasty, have been included in the cultural category of the UNESCO World Heritage Site list.


55- Parbati-kalisindh-Chambal project agreement signed by Mp and rajasthan.

56- Gagan narag (shooter , bronze in 2012 olympics) 'chef de mission' of paris Olympic 2024, 

-- 33rd edition of olympics
-- pV sindhu and sharat kamal flag bearer(opening caremony)
-- Shiva keshavan deputy chef de mission
-- manu bhakar and PR sreejesh flag bearer(closing caremony)

-- India rank is 71 in medal tally

Olymics 2028 - Los Angeles

new sports will be added- Baseball , cricket ,Flag football(for first time), Lacrose , Squash(for first time) 

57- AI tool 'Gemini' launched by Google in India.

58- Crocodile Consertvation project mark 50 years of completion started from 'Bhitarkarnika national park ' in 1975

 Bhitarkarnika national park in odisha - a Ramsar site

59- Bonn Climate conference 2024 was held in Germany , COP 29 organised in Baku, Azerbaijan in November 2024

60- energy transition index-published by world economic forum - india rank 63

may & June CA

1- 112th labour conference held at Geneva, Switzerland in 2024.
2- Pm Modi inaugurated new campus of Nalanda university(world heritage society).

3- 18th Loksabha - Protem speaker was Bhartruhari Mahtab(MP from orrissa) - president appoints him and administer oath to him

4- Wadhawan Port project - in Maharastra State - a greenfield project

5-  'CV chandrashekhar' ,padmabhusan awardee, passed away recently was associated with 'Bharatnathyam'

6- 'Ambubachi Mela' organised at kamakhya devi temple on 'Nilanchal Hills'. 

7-  'Srinagar' given world crafts city by world crafts council.

8- 'Kozhikode' has been given Unesco City of Literature.

9- India started e-medical visa service with Bangladesh.

10- First airport to start FTI-TTP is Indira Gandhi airport.

11- 'Khalubar war memorial' is located at Aryan valley of Ladakh.

12- 'Mark rutte' former PM of Netherland appointed as the Secretary General of NATO.

13- 'Paraguay' became 100th member of the international solar alliance.

14- India's First Chadwick House: CAG Museum Opened at 'Shimla', CAG - article 178.

15- Bannerghatta Biological National park is located in Karnataka- first leopard safari[].

16- Pen pinter prize 2024 - given to Arundhati roy for literature.

17- 108 feet Nadprabhu kempegowda (statue of prosperity) in Bengaluru. Nadprabhu kempegowda was governor(feudatories ) under Vijaynagara empire.

  -- city of bengaluru was founded by him.

18- Claudia Sheinbaum elected as first female president of Mexico.

19- mithun or gayal is state animal of arunachal and hornbill is state bird of arunachal.

20- 'Dar es salaaam' port is located in Tanzaniya , Adani group has signed 30 years agreement with this port. 

21- In 2023-24 india has received highest FDI from singapore. 2nd highest from mauritius , 3rd usa

22- Maguni charan kunar recently passed away is associate with puppetry art.

23- Host country of world environment day in 2024 is Saudi Arabia.

24- 'Halla Tomasdottir' has been elected president of Iceland.

25- 'Mount Canlanon' erupted recently is located in Philippines.

26- 'Oleg Kononenko' a Russian cosmonaut became first person to complete 1000 days in space.

27- A new species of Blue ant - Paraperatrechina blue has been found in Arunachal Pradesh

28 - President of 79th session of the UN general assembly is 'Philemon Yang' is former PM of cameroon.

29- 'Japan' has launched currency with 3d hologram to stop counterfeiting

30- 'Nagi Bird Santuary'  and 'Nakti Bird Santuary'  is Ramsar sites from Jamui district of bihar. total 82 Ramsar sites in india now , 3rd in bihar

31- Enviromental performance index - india rank is 176 -published by Yale University

32- 'Carlos Alcaraz' wont French open 2024 from spain. 

33- Prem singh Tamang became CM of Sikkim.

34- Gender Gap index 2024- india rank is 129 - published by world Economy forum

35- Highest Voter turnout in Assam

36 - Anamika Rajeev - first Helicopter pilot in Indian Navy

37- Jimex 2024 - naval exercise between india and Japan in yoshuka Japan.

38 - G7 summit-2024  at Italy

39- 'Arjun Erigaisi' associated with Chess, no-1 chess player from Telangana

40- Ashrikandi Terracotta- from assam given GI tag

41-  National Kho kho championship winner - Maharastra

42-  World's first nuclear energy summit at Belgium.

43- Manmohan singh autobiography - 'Changing India'

44- 'Ashdod port'  in Israel located on Mediterranean cost

45- CAR-T cells therapy related to  cancer.

46- West Nile Fever cases in Kerala , issue alert on that recently by mosquite culex pipiens.

47- AI spokeperson Victoria shi launched in Ukraine

48- Kinmen island located in pacific ocean , part of Taiwan.

49- Laurence WOng recently appointed as Singapore PM

50- World Hydrogen Summit 2024 in Netherland , objective to promote hydrogen as clean energy

51- TAK-003 prequalified WHO vaccine for Dengue.

52- Robert Fico PM of SLovakia

53- 'Mount Ibu' volcano erupted recently is located in Indoneia.

54- Kairos by 'Jenny Erpenbeck', translated by Michael Hofmann, has been named the winner of the International Booker Prize 2024.

55- 'Saga Dawa' Buddhist Festivals held in Sikkim in Tsuk La Thang monastery.

56- 'Sheetal  Devi' has won the world archery award.

57- Arvind Panagaria Chairman of 16th Finance commission.

58- Fist girl military school at Vrindavan in UP.

59- Chinnar wildlife sanctuary located in Kerala

60- Rejupave  Technology - Road Construction

61- Jaywan cards - credit and debit card of UAE  

       Jaywan cards are part of the UAE’s first national Domestic Card Scheme established through an agreement between Al Etihad Payments, the payment processor owned by the Central Bank of the UAE, and NPCI International Payments Limited (NIPL) of India.

PM SVANidhi scheme

PM Mudra loans

PM JDY scheme

National Research Foundation(statutory body): NRF is a proposed entity that will replace the Science and Engineering Research Board of India (SERB) and catalyse and channel interdisciplinary research for accelerating India’s ambitious development agenda, through impactful knowledge creation and translation.

-- The NRF will be presided by the Prime Minister and consist of 10 major directorates, focusing on different domains of science, arts, humanities, innovation and entrepreneurship.

-- The NRF will have an 18-member board with eminent Indian and international scientists, senior government functionaries and industry leaders.
-- The NRF will be registered as a society and have an independent secretariat.

ROOFTOP solarization and muft bijli in budget 2024- 300 units per year

// July 2024  CA

1. INS delhi was awarded best ship of eastern fleet  // defence
2. INS shiwalik participated in Rim Pac exercise     // defence
3.  Zorawar light tank developed by DRDO and Larsen and Toubro , named after general zorawar singh , maximum take off weight 25 tones.
4. INS tabar visited Hamburg , Germany                    //defence
5. 46th session of Unesco world heritage committe at Bharat Mandapam New Delhi

6 MP is best performing state under PM SVANIDHI Scheme
7 Kerala top rank in the NITI Ayog's SDG index 2023-24
8 Bengaluru inaugurated first underground metro line , the aqua line
9 IAF weapon system school inaugurated at Hyderabad        //defence
10 IIA (Indian institute of Astrophysics)  developed new tool for the Thirty meter telescope(TMT) project
11. Namo Drone Didi scheme -- 15000 self help group - it is administered by ministry of agriculture and farmer welfare

12. Divya kala mela and divya kala shakti event in Bhubaneshwar
13. Chairman of the 'Colombo Process'  is India

14. Oldest cave painting has been discovered at Indonesia(sulavesi island)
15. 41000 years old ostrich nest has been found in Andhra Pradesh.
16. Vijay Amritraj (tennis) is first asian men to be inducted in International tennis hall of fame.

17. Chagos archipelago - Mauritius
18. Jia rai is the youngest and fastest para swimmer to cross English channel
19. Paul kagame 4th consecutive president of Rwanda

20. Dr Arvind chairman of 16th finance commission.

21. Main objective of e-Sankhyiki portal is 'to establish a comprehensive data management and sharing system' by ministry of statistics
22. Primary focus of NITI Gearshift challenge if Freight transportation
23 Bajaj auto launched first CNG motorcycle
24 Mount etna located at Italy
25 MeDevIS online platform launched by WHO
26  Russia's highest national award "The Order of St. Andrew the Apostle” conferred on Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi.
27 Axiom Mission 4 (Ax-4) is the fourth private astronaut mission to the International Space Station by NASA and Axiom company. Two Indian astronaut will be sent in ISS.
28 UP has number of unorganized workers as per survey
29 Roshni Nadar Malhotra , chairperson of HCL give Knight of the Legion of Honor award by France.
30 NABARD launched an integrated tribal development programme in the Kulathupuzha grama panchayat  marking its first initiative in Kollam(Kerala).

31 Gautam gambhir new coach of indian cricket team.
32 Dhruv Sitwala won men's billiard championship 2024.
33 Best agricultural state award to Maharastra, and best horticulture state to Nagaland.
34 Lebanon Isreal- Blue lines demarcated by Un in 2001.
             
       //   August  2024 CA


1 After long time rare case of polio reported in Meghalaya , WHO investigating.
2 india sent 1400 kgs of anti cancer drugs to  Syria as a humanitarian assistance (aid).
3. paetongtarn Shinawatra became PM of Thailand recently.
4  AIM-174B – US Navy Readies ‘Double Ranged’ Air-To-Air Missile That Can Hunt PLAAF Aircraft From 400 KM.
5- 'Virupaksha' is radar for Sukhoi aircraft of IAF
6- 'Dumbur Dam', is located in Tripura state , made on Gumti river?
7- INS  Arighat - ballistc nuclear submarine , under project 75 alpha

8- Dhordo became best tourism village by UNWTO(united nation world tourism organisation)

9- As of July 2024, there are 43 UNESCO World Heritage Sites in India(6th highest in the world) with the recent inclusion of “Moidams – the Mound-Burial System of the Ahom Dynasty from Assam.
   42nd - Hoysala dynasty  temples    41- SHantiniketan - Rabindranath tagore
35- cultural
7-natural and 1 mixed(Kanchenzunga national park)

10- Ritu Kharidwal was leading lady behind chandrayan-3 mission.

11- In Asian games 2023 two games were newly added  e-sports and breakdance.
12- RBI governor launched Unified Lending Interface
13 Govt Approves BioE3(Biotechnology for economy , environment and employment) Policy to Propel High-Performance Biomanufacturing in India

Total 8 Pm has been given Bharat Ratna and 6 President Has been given Bharat Ratna

 
// September 2024  Current Affairs

1. The Union Ministry of Ports, Shipping & Waterways has named Olympic medalist shooter Manu Bhaker as its Brand Ambassador.
2. Lapata Ladies - Oscar 2025 - by Kiran Rao
3. Exercise eastern bridge 7 , Iaf and air force of Oman , held at Masirah, Oman
4. Space Force of Usa and india will make national semiconductor security plant in india.
5. Port Blair renamed as 'Sri Vijaya Puram'
6. India ranked 3rd in Asia power index. , India has moved up to the 39th position among 133 economies in the Global Innovation Index (GII) 2024 , published by word intellectual property
7. claudia Sheinbaum recently became first women president of Mexico.
8. India foreign minister visit SCO meet 2024 in Pakistan.
9. 11 classical languages in india , 6 languages - Tamil telugu Sanskrit Malayalam kannada odia , 5 new languages added in 2024 - marathi  Bengali pali prakrit and assamese
10 BharatGen , a pioneering initiative in generative AI.
11 African Country Rwanda declared outbreak of Marburg virus
12 Super typhoon Krathon hit phillipines and Taiwan
13 India ranks 39TH in Global innovation index 2024
14  Recently, France hosts world's largest naval defence exhibition 'EURONAVAL 2024.
15  The Maharashtra government has granted 'Rajyamata-Gomata' status to indigenous breeds of cows in the state.
16  Mount Erebus, Antarctica's tallest and southernmost active volcano, emits microscopic gold particles into the atmosphere: 
17  India joined US led Mineral security Network
18 Finance Minister is the ex-officio Governor on the Board of Governors of the IMF. RBI Governor is the Alternate Governor at the IMF.
19 The United States has recently announced a significant military aid package for Taiwan. This package, valued at $567 million, is aimed at bolstering Taiwan’s defense capabilities amid increasing political and military pressure from China.
20  Vishakapatnamis among the top seafood exporting port of India in terms of dollar value.
21  Shankh Air gets Civil Aviation Ministry nod to take off , Shankh Aviation is led by entrepreneur and chairman Shravan Kumar Vishwakarma
22 Aruna Kumara Dissanayake new president of Srilanka
23 China fired ICBM in pacific Ocean.
24 Iran unveils all new and powerful suicide drone ‘Shahed-136B’
25 Exchange control Manual by RBI
26 Prime Minister Narendra Modi recently inaugurated three PARAM Rudra Supercomputers worth ₹130 crore under the National Supercomputing Mission (NSM).
   These indigenously developed supercomputers, deployed in Pune, Delhi, and Kolkata, will drive advanced research in physics, cosmology, earth sciences, and other scientific fields. The Giant Metre Radio Telescope (GMRT) in Pune, Inter-University Accelerator Centre (IUAC) in Delhi, and S.N. Bose Centre in Kolkata will utilize these systems for cutting-edge research, enhancing India’s scientific capabilities.
27. Basmati Rice is the largest in terms of export value.
28 India's first paperless election happened in Madhya Pradesh for sarpanch election by state election commission.
29 India pledges 47.4 Crore for construction of 12 impactful projects in Nepal.
30 china launched smart dragon-3 rocket launching 8 satelites.
31 India and Uzbekistan signed Bilateral Investment treaty to ensure protection of investors
33 Exercise Silent Shark is a biennial anti-submarine warfare exercise between the US and South Korean navies. 
34 India has signed a new contract to import 73,000 SiG Sauer SiG-716 assault rifles from the US
35 Australia implemented right to disconnect , France was first country to implement right to disconnect.
36 Lupex mission - joint venture of isro(india) and JAXA(Japan) ,
-Primary Goal: To explore the moon’s southern polar region, investigating the presence of water and other elements, potentially in the form of surface ice.
-It will features both a lander and a rover. JAXA is responsible for developing and operating the rover, and ISRO for developing and operating the lander that will carry the rover.

37 India is building 12 new industrial smart cities at an estimated cost of Rs 28,602 crore: 
38- India Maldives sign 400 million dollar agreement
39 The India-Oman joint military exercise, AL-NAJAH 5 – 2024(Army exercise),  at the Rabkoot Training Area in Oman.
40 Indo-Oman bilateral naval exercise Naseem-Al-Bahr was held in Goa from October 2024. INS Trikand and Dornier Maritime Patrol Aircraft participated with the Royal Navy of Oman Vessel Al Seeb. 
41 Mohammad Younus , current interim government of Bangladesh got nobel peace prize in 2006.Mohammad Younus and Grameen Bank for their efforts to create economic and social development from below.
42 India ranks 4th in Renewable energy production in world. 



// October 2024  Current Affairs
1. food price inflation(CFPI) in September 2024 is 9.24 % from 5.66% in august , headline inflation 5.49% and core inflation 3.49%.Krishonnati Yojana (KY) – Focuses on food security and agricultural self-sufficiency.

2. Pradhan Mantri Rashtriya Krishi Vikas Yojana (PM-RKVY) – A cafeteria scheme aimed at promoting sustainable agriculture.
   To promote sustainable agriculture and improve agricultural productivity.

   Krishonnati Yojana (KY) – Focuses on food security and agricultural self-sufficiency.
3. USA gave THAAD missile defense system to Israel.
4. S jaishankar went to Pakistan for SCO meeting.
5. European space agency Proba 3 will be launched by ISRO.
6. Supreme court by 4:1 majority upholds constitutional validity of section 6A of citizenship amendment act, which granted citizenship to immigrants who      entered assam before march 24,1971.
7. Delhi gov. planning to implement congestion tax to reduce traffic during peak hours.
8. According to WEF , Hongkong is world's freest economy
9. The Bushveld Igneous Complex (BIC) is a geological intrusion in South Africa that contains some of the world's richest ore deposits.
10 In 50000 villages in 310 districts  government planning for climate resilient farming.
11 Li-Fi technology developed by velmennis to address communication challenges of Indian Navy.
12 The 2024 16th BRICS summit , held in Kazan, Russia(on Bank of Volga river). It was the first BRICS summit to include Egypt, Ethiopia, Iran, and the United Arab Emirates as members, following their accession to the organization at the 15th BRICS summit.
     The theme of the event was: “Strengthening Multilateralism for Fair Global Development and Security.” 2025 brics summit will be held at Brazil.
13 Germany is largest trading partner of India in Europe.
14 India and Pakistan agreed to renew their agreement to operate the Kartarpur Corridor to facilitate pilgrims from India to visit the Kartarpur Sahib Gurudwara for another five years till 2029.
15 Egypt has been certified as a malaria-free country by the World Health Organization (WHO) after 100 years of efforts to eradicate the disease.
16 rank of India in the Economic Freedom Report, 2024 is 84th(By Heritage foundation and wall street journal).
17 Reliance industries signed agreement with NVIDIA to setup AI infrastructure in india.
18 The Veerangana Durgavati Tiger Reserve is located in the state of Madhya Pradesh. It is the seventh tiger reserve in the state and the 54th in India.
19 'Salt Typhoons' hacked trump Phones , they are chinese hackers.
20 India ranks 79th in World justice report's Rule of  Law Index 2024. 
21 India imports around 95% of its lithium, cobalt and graphite from Australia ,chile and china.
22 c295 is military aircraft ,manufactured in Vadodara ,tie up between tata advance systems and airbus.
23 An Indian Army contingent comprising 25 personnel departed for Cijantung, Jakarta, Indonesia to take part in the 9th edition of India-Indonesia Joint Special Forces Exercise Garud Shakti 24.
24 Punjab & Sind Bank (PSB) has launched an e-Bank Guarantee (e-BG) facility in partnership with National e-Governance Services Ltd (NeSL), transitioning from traditional paper-based bank guarantees to a fully digital format using e-stamping and e-signatures.
25 Japan launched a Satellite named 'LignoSat' made of wood , Material= Honoki Wood ,Purpose= Orbit around the earth for   six months & importantly measure the strength of material 
26 5th joint army exercise between india and Vietnam , Vinbax-2024 at Ambala.
27 The third edition of the joint military exercise AUSTRAHIND commenced today at the Foreign Training Node in Pune, Maharashtra. The exercise, scheduled from 8th to 21st November 2024, is a key annual event held alternately in India and Australia.











*************************** Banking Current Affairs **********************

1.*Amazon pay ,AYden and BillDesk have secured license from RBI cross border payment aggregator license.
2. HSBC mutual fund has introduced  #SIPKoDoPromotion to create awareness.
3. 11 PSU banks charge rs 2331 Crore from Account holders for minimum balance , PNB Highest
4. UGRO Capital, a data-tech non-banking financial company (NBFC), has entered into a co-lending agreement with the Small Industries Development Bank of India (SIDBI) to provide timely and affordable credit to micro, small, and medium enterprises (MSMEs). This initiative aligns with the Reserve Bank of India’s (RBI) co-lending framework, aimed at enhancing priority-sector lending by combining the strengths of banks and NBFCs.


5 Tata power solar system Collaborated with BOI to facilitate Financing for Solary Systems.
   for upto 3 kw , upto 2 lac loan at 7.10% , 5% margin requirements
  for 3kw to 10 kw , upto 6 lac loan at 8.3 to 10.5% , 5% marging requirements
  for udhyam registered msme loan upto 30 Crore

 - Tata power solar system Collaborated with ICICI to facilitate Financing for Solary Systems.
    customers can avail themselves loans upto 90 lac collateral free upto tenure of 5 years.

6.Rapido becomes unicorn with fresh usd 120 million funding from West Bridge Capital. 4th unicorn startup after Krutrim ,perfois and porter.

7. GOI and ADB signed loan agreement worth 200 million USD for enhanced urban sanitation in 100 cities across 8 states.

8. CCI approves merger of Mangalore chemical and fertilizers with paradip phosphates Ltd. MCFL equity shares acquisition by ZMPPL(zuari moroco phosphates private Ltd. )
9 IRDAI has fined HDFC life insurance rs 2 crore for violation of breaching regulatory norms.1 Cr for violations related to policyholders and 1 Cr for for issues concerning outsourcing irregularities.

10. SWIFT partners with Axis bank to launch AI pilot.

11 The Small Industries Development Bank of India (SIDBI), which received approval of funding of $ 215.6 m from the Green Climate Fund, will create a corpus of $1 billion for ‘financing mitigation and adaptation projects’ (FMAP) of Medium and Small Enterprises (MSMEs), 10000 concessionals loans to msme

12. Asian Development Bank approving $240 m for lending for rooftop solar projects in India, which was announced on July 17. The ADB loan is to be routed through the State Bank of India and NABARD.

13 SEBI proposes new securitisation rules, including a Rs 1 crore minimum investment, a cap of 200 investors for private placements, mandatory dematerialisation, risk retention requirements, liquidity facilities, and minimum operational experience for originators.

14 The RBI kept the repo rate unchanged at 6.5% for the tenth consecutive time, changing its stance to "neutral." This provides relief to borrowers, as EMIs won't rise. GDP growth estimates for FY25 remain at 7.2%, and CPI inflation forecast is steady at 4.5%.
MPC Voting: The decision to maintain the repo rate was reached with a majority vote of 5 out of 6 members in favor.

15 Navi, a fintech company co-founded by Sachin Bansal, has made significant strides in the Unified Payments Interface (UPI) landscape, emerging as India's fifth-largest ecosystem player. In September, the company achieved remarkable transaction volumes, processing 120.41 million transactions.

16 Bank of Baroda (BoB) has introduced a new 400-day term deposit scheme known as the ‘bob Utsav Deposit Scheme’, aimed at offering higher interest rates to various categories of depositors during the festive season.

17 In a significant development in the Indian banking sector, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has appointed Partha Pratim Sengupta as the Managing Director (MD) and Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Bandhan Bank for a period of three years. Bandhan bank is private scheduled commercial bank.

18 HDFC Bank has officially opened its first branch in Singapore as part of its strategy to expand its international operations. Granted a wholesale banking license by the Monetary Authority of Singapore (MAS), effective from October 15, 2024, the bank aims to offer a variety of financial products,
   -With the addition of Singapore, HDFC now operates five international branches: Hong Kong, Bahrain, Dubai, Singapore, and an IFSC Banking Unit in Gujarat International Finance Tech City (GIFT City).

19* On July 30, 2024, Thomas Cook (India) Limited, a leading provider of foreign exchange services, teamed up with the National Payments Corporation of India (NPCI) to introduce its first RuPay AED prepaid forex card for Indian travellers heading to the UAE.The card, powered by NPCI’s technology partner CARD91, is part of RuPay, India’s domestic card payment network

20* IIT Madras and the Industrial Development Bank of India (IDBI) have partnered to launch the IDBI - IITM Secure Systems Lab (I2SSL). The lab's goal is to develop and deploy cybersecurity solutions for critical sectors, such as healthcare, fintech, and aerospace. 


21 The RBI has barred four NBFCs, Navi Finserv, Asirvad Microfinance, Arohan Financial Services, and DMI Finance from disbursing loans starting October 21,    2024, due to excessive interest rates and non-compliance with regulatory guidelines. These companies violated pricing policies and failed to assess borrowers' repayment abilities properly.

21 Global index provider FTSE Russell has announced that India’s sovereign bonds will be included in its Emerging Markets Government Bond Index (EMGBI) starting September 2025. This follows similar inclusions by JP Morgan and Bloomberg Index Services, which could attract billions of dollars.

22 Paytm has received approval from NPCI to onboard new UPI users after a nine-month ban imposed by RBI. The ban, which caused Paytm's UPI market share to drop, has now been lifted, allowing the company to resume user additions under NPCI's guidelines.

23 HDFC Life has received dual recognition from Avtar and Seramount for its strong commitment to Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion . The company has been named one of the Best Companies for Women in India and has also earned the title of 'Exemplars of Inclusion' in the Most Inclusive Companies Index.

24 State Bank of India (SBI) has raised ₹5,000 crore through Additional Tier-I (AT-I) bonds with a coupon rate of 7.98%, its first issuance in the current financial year. The bonds, aimed at bolstering the bank's capital base, attracted bids exceeding 3.5 times the base size of ₹2,000 crore.

25 Punjab & Sind Bank (PSB) has launched an e-Bank Guarantee (e-BG) facility in partnership with National e-Governance Services Ltd (NeSL), transitioning from traditional paper-based bank guarantees to a fully digital format using e-stamping and e-signatures.

26 State Bank of India (SBI) has been recognized as the Best Bank in India for 2024 by Global Finance Magazine during its 31st Annual Best Bank Awards in Washington. SBI Chairman CS Setty accepted the award, reflecting the bank's commitment to exceptional service and financial inclusion.

27 Ujjivan Small Finance Bank has obtained approval from the Reserve Bank of India for foreign exchange services, receiving the 'Authorised Dealer Category 1 licence.' This allows the bank to offer a variety of foreign exchange products, enhancing its service capabilities.

28 The Financial Services Institutions Bureau (FSIB) has recommended 'Ashok Chandra' as the next Managing Director and CEO of Punjab National Bank (PNB). Currently an Executive Director at Canara Bank, Chandra began his banking career in 1991 and holds a Master's degree in Economics.

29 Fintech firm Slice has completed its merger with North East Small Finance Bank, uniting operations and brands to strengthen banking services in India's northeastern region. This integration, approved by RBI over a year ago, aims to enhance customer experience and introduce new banking products.

30 The State Bank of India (SBI) and India Exim Bank are actively supporting businesses in African countries by addressing the trade finance gap, as highlighted by the South African heads of the two organizations during the India Entrepreneurs Forum (IEF).

31 DBS Bank India has been named one of the ‘Best Companies for Women in India’ (BCWI) for the ninth consecutive year, also earning a spot in the "Best Companies - Hall of Fame." This recognition highlights the bank’s commitment to gender equity, with women making up 31% of its workforce.

32 SEBI has fined NSE Data And Analytics ₹12 lakh for regulatory violations during an inspection from September 6-7, 2023. Key issues included the lack of segregation of IT infrastructure from its parent, NSE, delayed acknowledgment letters to investors, and cybersecurity lapses.

33 Federal Bank has partnered with Bhashini to enhance its AI chatbot, Feddy, with support for 14 Indian languages. This initiative, driven by the Reserve Bank Innovation Hub (RBIH), aims to make banking services more inclusive and accessible to a diverse range of customers across India.

34 On October 2, 2024, the Asian Development Bank (ADB) sanctioned a $162 million loan to support the Sustainable and Inclusive Tourism Development Project in Himachal Pradesh. This initiative aims to revive tourism in the pandemic-hit districts of Hamirpur, Kangra, Kullu, Mandi.

35 The Life Insurance Corporation of India (LIC) has raised its stake in Bank of Maharashtra from 4.05% to 7.10% following the allotment of 25.96 crore equity shares at ₹57.36 each through a Qualified Institutional Placement (QIP).

36 The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) and the Maldives Monetary Authority (MMA) have entered into a $400 million and 10 billion INR currency swap agreement under the SAARC Currency Swap Framework for 2024-2027.This pact, valid until June 18, 2027, provides short-term foreign exchange liquidity to the Maldives.

37 The government has extended M. Rajeshwar Rao’s term as Deputy Governor of the Reserve Bank of India for another year, effective October 9, 2024. This decision, made by the Appointments Committee of the Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, marks his second consecutive one-year extension.

38 HDFC Bank has announced the sale of its entire 100% stake in HDFC Education and Development Services Pvt. Ltd (HDFC Edu) to Vama Sundari Investments for ₹192 crore. The transaction, priced at ₹9.60 per share, will occur in two phases.

39 In a landmark move, the International Finance Corporation (IFC) has partnered with Axis Bank to provide a $500 million loan aimed at scaling up blue finance and green projects in India. This is IFC’s first blue investment in the country and the largest climate finance initiative by IFC in India to date. Blue loans focus on funding water and wastewater management, reducing ocean plastic pollution, restoring marine ecosystems, and promoting offshore renewable energy, among others.

40 Bank of Baroda (BoB) is set to sell its Oman operations to Bank Dhofar as part of its strategy to rationalize foreign operations. The sale is contingent on regulatory approvals and involves a total business value of 113.35 million Omani Rials, with a net worth of 25.54 million Omani Rials.

41 India aims to build 500 gigawatts (Gw) of renewable energy (RE) by 2030, with commitments totaling 570 Gw from major developers, led by Reliance Industries (100 Gw) and NTPC (41.3 Gw). Banks and financial institutions pledged Rs 32.45 trillion, with REC committing Rs 6 trillion. major contributors are RIL , NTPC ,ReNew ,ADANI ,Suzlon energy

42 LIC has handed over a ₹3,662.17 crore dividend to the Indian government, following a final dividend approval of ₹6 per share for 2023-24. This, combined with an earlier interim dividend of ₹2,441.45 crore, brings the total payout for the fiscal year to ₹6,103.62 crore.

43* The RBI has fined UCO Bank Rs 2.68 crore for breaching regulations on current accounts, deposit interest rates, and fraud classification. Cent Bank Home Finance Ltd was fined Rs 2.1 lakh for non-compliance with KYC norms.   //penalty

44* Mastercard has launched its Payment Passkey Service in India, using biometric authentication to replace passwords and OTPs, aiming to enhance online shopping security amid rising fraud cases.

45 POP, a fintech startup founded by ex-Flipkart employees, has launched India’s first multi-brand co-branded credit card in collaboration with RuPay and Yes Bank. The card features partnerships with brands like Zomato, Blinkit, Cult, Rapido, Cleartrip, and Pharmeasy, offering rewards in POPcoins .

46 HDFC Bank's new GIGA suite offers tailored financial services for India's gig workforce ,freelancers, estimated at 30-50 million. GIGA includes savings and current accounts, debit and credit cards, health insurance from Rs 20 per day, flexible investment options, and customized asset products.

47* The RBI impose penalties on Godrej Housing Finance, Aadhar Housing Finance, and HUDCO(Housing and rural development corporation Limited) for non-compliance with housing finance regulations. Godrej Housing failed to obtain required valuation reports, Aadhar charged interest before loan disbursement, and HUDCO neglected risk categorization.

48. RBL Bank has launched the 'Xtra Credit Card' in collaboration with Indian Oil Corporation to moderately grow its credit card portfolio and enhance customer engagement. The bank aims for a 15% increase in credit card outstanding, focusing on internal efficiency .

49.* The Reserve Bank of India has imposed penalties amounting to Rs 2.91 crore on Axis Bank and HDFC Bank for deficiencies in statutory and regulatory compliance. Axis Bank faces a penalty of Rs 1.91 crore, while HDFC Bank has been fined Rs 1 crore. The penalties address issues related to interest rates, KYC norms, and customer service.

50* Union Bank of India has become the first major bank to join the Partnership for Carbon Accounting Financials (PCAF), reflecting its commitment to managing climate risk. This move aligns with the Reserve Bank of India's new draft guidelines requiring banks to disclose climate-related financial risks.

51* The National Payments Corporation of India (NPCI) has increased the transaction limits for tax payments using UPI (Unified Payment Interface), by allowing people to send 5 lakh in a single transaction.

52* The Life Insurance Corporation of India (LIC) has selected Infosys to develop its next-generation digital platform as part of its This platform will enhance customer service, business lifecycle management, and branch operations.

53 Paisabazaar, India's leading online marketplace for consumer credit and free credit score platform, has partnered with YES BANK, India's sixth largest private sector bank, to unveil their co-branded credit card - YES BANK Paisabazaar PaisaSave Credit Card.

54 *KVS Manian has taken over as the Managing Director and CEO of Federal Bank on September 23, 2024, succeeding Shyam Srinivasan. Manian, with over 25 years of experience at Kotak Mahindra Bank, played a pivotal role in its growth.

55 Axis Bank and Mastercard have launched the MyBiz credit card, tailored for small business owners. This premium card offers benefits like airport lounge access, travel insurance, and business services, along with exclusive experiences through priceless.com.

56 Bank of Baroda has partnered with EaseMyTrip.com to launch the Bank of Baroda EaseMyTrip Co-branded Travel Debit Card, the first of its kind by a public sector bank in India. Designed for frequent travelers and lifestyle enthusiasts, the card offers significant discounts on travel and hotel booking.

57 * IndusInd Bank's board has approved the reappointment of Sumant Kathpalia as MD & CEO for a three-year term from March 2025 to March 2028, pending RBI and shareholder approval. Kathpalia has been with the bank since 2020, driving its turnaround and growth.

58 SEBI introduced a new asset class and liberalized the Mutual Funds Lite (MF Lite) framework for passively managed schemes, setting a minimum investment of Rs 10 lakh per investor. It also expanded the T+0 settlement cycle to top 500 scrips.

59 * On July 29, SEBI introduced 'SEVA,' an AI-powered chatbot to assist investors. It provides information on the securities market, latest master circulars, and grievance redressal.

60 Eleven public sector banks, excluding State Bank of India (SBI), have charged Rs 2,331 crore from account holders for their failure to maintain minimum balance in savings banks in FY2024.

61* RBL Bank has announced integration of Unified Payments Interface (UPI) and National Common Mobility Card (NCMC) services on RuPay Credit Cards it sells.

62 Kotak Mahindra Bank Ltd has teamed up with GOQii to launch the Kotak – GOQii Smart Vital Plus smartwatch, revolutionising the way customers make payments. Priced at INR 3499, this innovative wearable device combines contactless payments with health monitoring features. Powered by RuPay On-The-Go, the smartwatch enables seamless transactions up to INR 5000 without requiring a PIN.

63 Since 2014, RBI has canceled 78 UCB licenses, with Maharashtra leading at 36. Reasons include inadequate capital and poor financial health. In 2024 alone, 10 licenses were canceled across multiple states.

64 The RBI has introduced new norms for treating Bad and Doubtful Debt Reserves (BDDR) in cooperative banks to ensure uniformity. Effective immediately, provisions for non-performing assets (NPAs) must be recognized as expenses in the Profit & Loss account starting FY25.

65* Capital Small Finance Bank(Jalandhar Punjab) has partnered with Edelweiss Life Insurance to offer life insurance products through its branches, expanding financial services for customers and increasing Edelweiss Life's reach.

66 The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) concluded its Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) meeting on Thursday, maintaining the benchmark interest rates at 6.5% by a 4:2 majority.

67 The Reserve Bank has revamped the cheque truncation system (CTS), which currently processes cheques with a clearing cycle of up to two working days, to improve the efficiency of cheque clearing and reduce settlement risk for participants, apart from enhancing customer experience.

68 The RBI on August 12, announced setting up a committee under deputy governor Michael Debabrata Patra on benchmarking the statistics regularly disseminated by it against global standards. The 10-member ‘Expert Committee on Benchmarking of its Statistics’ has been asked to submit report by the end of November 2024.

69 *Punjab National Bank has launched the PNB ANTAH DRISHTI Braille Debit Card for visually impaired users. This contactless RuPay card features Braille embossing, a rounded notch, and contrasting colors for easier use.

70 Axis Bank, in partnership with Visa, has launched the ultra-premium 'Primus' credit card, designed exclusively for India's ultra-high-net-worth individuals.

71* RBL Bank has launched the "Vijay Fixed Deposits" scheme to celebrate India's 78th Independence Day, offering a 500-day fixed deposit with interest rates up to 8.85% p.a. Customers can easily book this limited-time offer through the RBL Bank MoBank app or by visiting a branch.

72 The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has unveiled draft norms for Fintech Self-Regulatory Organizations (SROs). Emphasizing representative membership, independence, and proactive engagement.

73* RBI Governor Shaktikanta Das has been ranked as the top central banker globally for the second consecutive year, receiving an 'A+' grade from Global Finance magazine. This recognition highlights his success in managing inflation, economic growth, currency stability, and interest rates.

74* Airtel Payments Bank has launched Face Match, an AI-driven security feature that uses facial recognition to enhance account protection. It evaluates various risk factors and prompts users for selfie verification if suspicious activity is detected aiming to combat fraud and ensure secure transaction.

75 The RBI forecasts private capital expenditure to rise significantly to ₹2.45 trillion in FY25, up from ₹1.59 trillion in FY24, driven by strong investment intentions and a focus on infrastructure, particularly roads and power. Challenges like global volatility could impact this positive outlook.

76* PhonePe on August 22, announced the launch of Credit Line on UPI on its platform. Consumers who avail credit lines from their banks can now link these credit lines to UPI on PhonePe and seamlessly make merchant payments.

77* Bandhan Bank launched Avni, a savings account for women, on August 22, 2024, alongside the Bandhan Bank Delights loyalty program. Avni offers benefits like an exclusive debit card with free airport lounge access and insurance coverage.

78 The RBI has revised its e-mandate framework to exempt auto-replenishment of FASTag and NCMC balances from the 24-hour pre-debit notification requirement. This change aims to simplify the process for recurring transactions that are irregular in timing.

79* Jana Small Finance Bank has once again cemented its status as a frontrunner in the Indian banking industry. The bank's commitment to excellence and innovation was recognized at the prestigious 2nd ICC Emerging Asia Banking Conclave & Awards, where it clinched four coveted awards.

80* Government of Nagaland and SBI General Insurance signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) for Disaster Risk Transfer Parametric Insurance Solution (DRTPS), making Nagaland the first state in the country to implement this disaster management insurance.The state chief minister, Neiphiu Rio, announced that the new insurance partnership was aimed at safeguarding the state against natural calamities


81 Karnataka Bank has partnered with ICICI Lombard General Insurance to offer a wide range of insurance products, including health, motor, travel, and home insurance, to meet the diverse needs.

82* The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on July 26 prescribed a Prompt Corrective Action (PCA) framework for relatively weak urban co-operative banks (UCBs), with deposits above ₹100 crore (upper tier category), to nurse them back to health. As per the framework, a financially unsound and ill-managed UCB can be brought under PCA if it breaches the risk thresholds of identified indicators pertaining to capital and profitability (net profit).

83* AU Small Finance Bank’s board has approved a plan to apply for a universal banking license from the RBI. The decision, supported by recent strong financial performance.

84* IndusInd Bank's new CSR initiative, ‘Wrestle for Glory,’ in partnership with Inspire Institute of Sport, will provide fully-funded scholarships to 50 talented female wrestlers.

85* State Bank of India (SBI) has launched a 444-day term deposit scheme, “Amrit Vrishti”, with an interest rate of 7.25 per cent. This scheme is available to domestic and non-resident Indian customers and will be effective July 15, 2024. India’s largest bank will offer an additional 0.50 per cent to senior citizens on the scheme.

86 Continuing with its endeavor to increase the contribution of bancassurance and its pursuit to provide life insurance coverage to all by 2047. Life Insurance Corporation (LIC) of India has tied-up with one of the best technologically advanced and promising banks in the country, IDFC First Bank Ltd, under Corporate Agency Arrangement.

87* The World Bank’s Board of Executive Directors June 28, approved $1.5 billion in financing for a second operation to help India accelerate the development of low-carbon energy. The operation will seek to promote the development of a vibrant market for green hydrogen, continue to scale up renewable energy, and stimulate finance for low-carbon energy investments.

88* Punjab National Bank (PNB) has introduced 'Safety Ring,' a new optional security feature for internet and mobile banking. This mechanism allows customers to set daily transaction limits for Term deposits(TD).

89* State Bank of India (SBI) has introduced “MSME Sahaj,” a revolutionary online business loan solution tailored for MSMEs. This web-based platform allows MSMEs to obtain credit against their GST registered sales invoices swiftly and seamlessly.

90 The Financial Stability Report (FSR) is a comprehensive, half-yearly publication that involves contributions from all financial sector regulators in India. It reflects the collective assessment of the Sub-Committee of the Financial Stability and Development Council on current and emerging risks to the stability of the Indian financial system. The July 2024 edition of the FSR highlights various aspects of global and domestic macro financial risks, the soundness and resilience of financial institutions, regulatory initiatives, and an assessment of systemic risk.

91* ICICI Bank announced the launch of its ‘Student Sapphiro Forex Card’, a premium forex prepaid card crafted specifically for students who are going abroad for higher education.

92* The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has fined Punjab National Bank (PNB) ₹1.32 crore for violating loans and advances norms and failing to preserve customer identification records.   //penalty

93* State insurer Life Insurance Corporation of India (LIC) has expanded its stake in IDFC First Bank to 2.68%, purchasing the lender’s shares for ₹80.63 each.

94 The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has once again cancelled the licence of a co-operative bank due to its deteriorating financial health. Since January, licences of Sumerpur Mercantile Urban Cooperative Bank Limited, Jai Prakash Narayan Nagari Sahakari Bank Ltd, Shree Mahalaxmi Mercantile Co-operative Bank Ltd, and Hiriyur Urban Co-operative Bank Ltd have also been revoked.

95* ICICI Lombard has launched 'Elevate', a groundbreaking health insurance product powered by AI. It offers unlimited coverage options, financial protection, and personalized plans tailored.

96* Bank of Baroda (BoB) plans to raise up to ₹7,500 crore through Additional Tier-I (AT1) and Tier-II bonds to meet regulatory requirements and support business growth. This capital will be raised in multiple tranches up to March 31, 2025, and beyond, depending on market conditions.

97 Four PSU banks—Bank of Baroda, Canara Bank, Indian Bank, and Bank of India—have collectively paid ₹6,481 crore as dividends to the government for the financial year 2023-24.

98 Kotak Mahindra Mutual Fund has launched the Kotak BSE PSU Index Fund, a passive equity scheme that replicates the performance of the BSE PSU Index comprising 56 PSU stocks.

99 Union Bank of India has launched Union Premier branches tailored for high-value customers in rural and semi-urban (RUSU) markets. These branches are designed to offer personalized banking services and a comprehensive range of products under one roof.

100 The Reserve Bank of India with the concurrence of the Government of India has decided to put in place a revised Framework on Currency Swap Arrangement for SAARC countries for the period 2024 to 2027.

101 ICICI Bank’s market capitalisation(m-cap) on June 25 crossed the $100-billion mark for the first time, becoming only the sixth company to do so. The private sector lender joins the likes of Reliance Industries, Tata Consultancy Services, HDFC Bank, and Bharti Airtel. The four other domestically listed companies with a market value of more than $100 billion.

102 Kotak Mahindra Bank plans to open 175-200 new branches in FY25 despite RBI restrictions on digital operations due to IT issues.

103 State Bank of India (SBI), under Chairman Dinesh Kumar Khara(July news), aims to open 400 new branches across India in the fiscal year 2024-25. This expansion is part of SBI’s strategy to enhance customer service, particularly in emerging areas such as wealth management and advisory services, despite the growing trend towards digital transactions.

104 State Bank of India plans to open 400 new branches in 2024-25 to enhance customer service, particularly in emerging sectors like wealth management.

105 State Bank of India (SBI) paid a Rs 6,959 crore dividend to the government for FY 2023-24, declaring Rs 13.70 per share. Bank of Maharashtra (BoM) presented a Rs 857 crore dividend, declaring Rs 1.40.

106* Deutsche Bank has injected ₹5,113 crore into its India operations, marking the largest capital infusion in recent years. This boosts its regulatory capital to ₹30,000 crore, a 33% increase from 2023, reflecting the bank's growing commitment to India.

107* IDFC FIRST Bank, in partnership with Swift, has launched India’s first real-time tracking for international money transfers, accessible via its mobile app and internet banking. This service allows customers to track cross-border transactions with complete transparency, providing updates.

108* Paytm Launches India’s First NFC(near field communication) Card Soundbox, a Two-in-One Mobile QR Payment Device that Doubles Up as an Affordable Card Payments Machine, for Millions of Offline Merchants

109 In a pioneering move, Axis Bank and Mastercard have unveiled the NFC Soundbox, a cutting-edge device set to transform payment experiences.

110 HDFC securities has announced a strategic tie-up with Vested Finance, a popular US-based investment platform for democratising global investing for Indians and NRIs. Global Investing 2.0 will provide a leap to all investors wanting augmented protection, innovative features, and deep portfolio diversification.

111 The Government of India and the World Bank have signed an agreement for the construction of Green National Highway Corridors Project (GNHCP) in an aggregate length of 781 km for the states of Himachal Pradesh, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and Andhra Pradesh, with loan assistance of US $ 500 million against total project cost of US $ 1288.24 million (Rs. 7,662.47 crore). will complete by May 2026.

112 US-based global investment firm Carlyle group through its affiliate Quality Investment Holdings PCC offloaded 3,32,60,000 shares, amounting to a 12.8 per cent stake in PNB Housing Finance, in Open market Transaction.

113* J&K Bank launches "Kisan Ka Samman" The program is our tribute to the hard-working and financially disciplined farmers of J&K

114 Muthoot Capital Services (MCSL) announced its partnership with UK based Development Financial Institution for raising long term debt funds to promote its electric vehicle portfolio.Facilitated by Axis Bank, the collaboration entails a deal size of Rs 100 crore.

115 SBI General Insurance Company and HSBC India have entered into a bancassurance partnership for the distribution of non-life insurance products.

116 Fourth Partner Energy Ltd (FPEL) has secured a funding of $275 million from a consortium of World Bank’s International Financial Corporation (IFC), Asian Development Bank and the German Investment Corporation, DEG.Out of the $275 million, IFC is investing $125 million, while ADB is infusing $100 million and Germany’s DEG is putting in $50 million to complete this round of fundraising.

117 Setu, a Pine Labs company, in partnership with Axis Bank, today launched UPISetu, India’s only UPI-focused payments platform for businesses and developers.

118 L&T Finance Ltd. received the certificate of registration(RBI Certificate) as a Non-Banking Financial Company (Investment and Credit Company) (NBFC-ICC) from the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on August 2, 2024.

119 DBS Bank India unveils 'DBS Golden Circle', an exclusive priority banking program for senior citizens, 7% interest rate , 1 lac cyber insurance fraud.

120 HCLSoftware, the software business division of HCLTech, has agreed to wholly acquire Zeenea, a French data catalog and governance solutions company, for 24 million euros (about Rs 220 crore).In addition to enhancing the company’s data and analytics business (Actian)

121. As of August 2024, over 100,000 cross-border Unified Payments Interface (UPI) Person-to-Merchant (P2M) transactions have been completed in Nepal, NIPL international arms of NPCI collaborated with FonePay Nepal's largest payment network to launch cross border UPI payment.
    -- Countries adopted UPI system : Nepal , Bhutan , srilanka ,Malaysia ,UAE , France ,RUssia , Singapore , Qatar , Oman	

122 State-owned Power Finance Corporation (PFC) on 8th August said that it has secured a loan of 25.5 billion Japanese yen (around Rs 147 crore) from Japan Bank for International Cooperation (JBIC) for a wind energy project. The loan proceeds will be used to finance 300.3 MW Wind Energy Project of Ostro Kannada Power Private Ltd (OKPPL) in Karnataka, India.
 - This loan is part of JBIC's Global Action for Reconciling Economic Growth and Environmental Preservation (GREEN) initiative, a PFC statement said.

123 Property Share (PropShare Investment Manager Pvt. Ltd) became the first fractional ownership platform (FOP) to receive the Small and Medium Real Estate Investment Trust (SM REIT) license from the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI). The license was granted under the name Property Share Investment Trust (PSIT). 

124 Bharti Global, the international investment arm of Bharti Enterprises is set to acquire a 24.5% stake in the U.K.-based-BT Group plc , the company said in a statement.

125 Jakson Engineers Limited has signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with the State Bank of India (SBI) to promote solar energy adoption across India. This collaboration, part of the SURYA SHAKTI SOLAR FINANCE initiative.

126 Ageas Federal Life Insurance Partners with Phone Pe to offer Instant Term Insurance.

127 the Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas (MoPNG) approved ONGC to invest up to ₹10,501 crore in ONGC Petro Additions Limited (OPaL) on August 9, 2024. The investment will make OPaL a subsidiary of ONGC, with ONGC holding 95.69% equity in the company. OPaL is joint venture between ONGC , GAIL and Gujarat state petroleum corporation Ltd.

128 As per report of SEBI , USA led to highest FPI in india , followed by Luxemburg(1393) and Canada(804).

129 Fintech firm Navi on Wednesday announced a partnership with Karnataka Bank to roll out a credit line on UPI product for customers on the platform.

130 Kotak Mahindra Bank's subsidiaries Sonata Finance and BSS Microfinance approved merging, pending regulatory and shareholder approvals.

131 RBI approved Tata Capital conversion from NBFC-CIC to NBFC-ICC

132 NPCI launched 'UPI Circle' for secured payment among trusted users.

133 The World Bank sold world's first a nine-year, $225 million note this week which will help raise funds for reforestation in the Amazon.

134* Bengaluru-based electric scooter maker Ather Energy, which competes with the listed EV giant Ola Electric, has reportedly joined the unicorn startup club after raising $71 million (or Rs 596 crore) in a funding round led by government-owned National Investment and Infrastructure Fund. 5th unicorn after Rapido , krutrim ,perfois , porter. Ather energy founded by Tarun mehta and swapnil jain.

135 ABFL partners with AU small finance bank to launch co branded credit card , powered by visa and rupay networks.

136 BOB secures load deal of 5000 Cr with SAIL at 7.49% interest rate.

137 Yes, Mynd IFSC launched its International Trade Financing Services (ITFS) platform, M1NXT, in August 2024, for global trade finance at GIFT city Gujarat.
138 * LIC Housing Finance Limited has launched the 'Griha Rakshak' home loan scheme specifically for armed forces personnel. This offer provides eligible serving and retired members with home loans up to Rs 2 crore at a competitive interest rate of 8.4% per annum, and processing fees are waived.

139 Axis Bank, on 20 August today announced the launch of neo for merchants in partnership with VISA and Mintoak. It marks a significant milestone in Axis Bank's commitment to empower businesses with cutting-edge banking solutions.20 Aug 2024.

140 BharatPe has partnered with OTO capital for enabling two wheeler loans and volt money to facilitate loan against mutual fund(upto 1 Cr) to its merchant partners.

141



























********************** RESERVE BANK OF INDIA   ************************

--Nidhi Companies in India are regulated primarily by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs (MCA) under the Government of India. While they fall under the broad category of Non-Banking Financial Companies (NBFCs), they are not regulated by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) like other NBFCs.



Banks are also required to maintain a portion of their demand and time liabilities as cash reserves with the Reserve Bank. For this purpose, they need to maintain current account with the Reserve Bank. The current account of the banks is opened by the Banking Departments of the Reserve Bank’s Regional offices. The Department of Government and Bank Accounts (DGBA) issues general guidelines for opening the current accounts.

-- Presently, the Reserve Bank has appointed 12 public sector banks, 20 private sector banks and 01 foreign sector bank (WOS) as its agency banks for conducting Government banking business

-- The Monetary Policy Committee is required to meet at least four times in a year. The quorum for the meeting of the MPC is four members(total members 6).

-- what does primary dealers do in banking?


*  how is local area bank different from Urban Cooperative Bank?
Local Area Banks (LABs):

they are small, privately owned banks.
They operate as for-profit entities with a limited geographic scope, typically covering three contiguous districts.

Urban Cooperative Banks (UCBs):

UCBs are cooperative institutions that are owned by their members, who are also their customers.
They operate on a cooperative model, where each member has a vote regardless of the number of shares owned, reflecting the "one member, one vote" principle.

* Difference between scheduled and Un-scheduled banks?

  both scheduled and unscheduled bank are subject to banking regulations act 1949.
  Scheduled banks have access to various low credit facilities from RBI(Like MSF) for their normal banking requirements.
  Unscheduled banks are not entitled to  borrow from RBI for normal banking requirements except for abnormal circumstances.


* What is NEER and REER? with analogy

Imagine you're comparing the prices of oranges from different stalls in a market. Each stall represents a different country, and the price at each stall is how much your local currency (like dollars) can buy.

NEER is like calculating the average price of oranges across all stalls, but with a twist. You give more importance (or weight) to the stalls where you buy oranges more often. This gives you an idea of how strong your currency is compared to others, on average, but only considering the face value of the prices.

REER (Real Effective Exchange Rate):
Now, think about how the quality or size of the oranges might differ between stalls. Some stalls might offer bigger, juicier oranges for the same price, while others might have smaller ones.

REER is like adjusting the average price you calculated in NEER by also considering these differences in quality. In economic terms, it adjusts for things like inflation in each country. So, REER gives you a better sense of the real value of your currency, taking into account how much you can actually buy in different countries after considering the cost of living or inflation there.


--- The Non-Accelerating Inflation Rate of Unemployment (NAIRU) is the unemployment rate at which inflation remains stable. It's the lowest rate of unemployment that can be sustained without causing inflation and wage growth to increase. 

***what is reflation and disinflation?
  Reflation and disinflation** are terms used to describe different economic processes related to inflation.

### 1. **Reflation**
- **Definition**: Reflation refers to the deliberate attempt by policymakers, such as central banks or governments, to stimulate the economy by increasing inflation to a healthier or desired level, typically after a period of deflation or economic downturn.

- **Purpose**: The goal of reflation is to increase economic activity, raise prices to a sustainable level, and avoid deflation (falling prices), which can harm economic growth. Measures used include lowering interest rates, increasing government spending, or expanding the money supply.

- **Example**: After a recession, governments might try to boost demand and employment through reflationary policies like tax cuts or increased public spending, which, in turn, can help raise inflation rates to normal levels.

### 2. **Disinflation**
 
    Definition**: Disinflation refers to a slowdown in the rate of inflation. It means that prices are still increasing, but at a slower rate than before.
    Difference from Deflation**: Unlike deflation (where prices are actually falling), disinflation means that prices are still rising, but the pace of the increase is declining.
- **Purpose**: Disinflation is often a desired outcome when inflation is too high and policymakers, such as central banks, aim to bring it down to a more stable or target rate. Central banks may use interest rate hikes or reduce the money supply to achieve this.
- **Example**: If inflation drops from 5% to 3%, this is disinflation. Prices are still rising, but more slowly.

In summary, **reflation** is about increasing inflation after a period of low inflation or deflation, while **disinflation** is about reducing the rate of inflation without causing deflation.


*** What is FPO in share market?

A follow-on public offer (FPO) is when a company already listed on an exchange issues new shares to investors. The offer is an issuance of additional shares made by a company after an initial public offering (IPO). FPO transaction is also an primary market transactions.

There are 23 stock exchanges in India. Among them, two are national-level stock exchanges namely Bombay Stock exchange (BSE) and National Stock Exchange (NSE). The rest 21 are Regional Stock Exchanges (RSEs).

*** What is Indian depository receipt(IDR)?
IDR (Indian Depository Receipt) is a financial instrument used by foreign companies to raise capital in India. It represents shares of a foreign company, which are traded on Indian stock exchanges. Essentially, it allows Indian investors to invest in foreign companies without directly buying shares on foreign stock markets. INR currency is used.



*** WHatis NSDL and CDSL ?
**CDSL (Central Depository Services Limited)**:
- **Established**: 1999.
- **Function**: A depository in India that holds securities such as stocks, bonds, and debentures in electronic form , 20% of securities.
- **Services**: Facilitates the dematerialization (conversion of physical certificates to electronic form), transfer, and settlement of securities.
                settlement time is T+1 days
- **Regulator**: Regulated by SEBI (Securities and Exchange Board of India).
  
**NSDL (National Securities Depository Limited)**:
- **Established**: 1996.
- **Function**: The first and largest depository in India, providing similar services as CDSL for holding and transacting securities in electronic form.
               - holds 80% of securities . settlement time is T+2 days.
- **Services**: Handles demat accounts, securities settlement, and safekeeping of financial assets.
- **Regulator**: Also regulated by SEBI.

Both CDSL and NSDL are essential to India's financial system, ensuring efficient and secure transactions in the securities market.
there are only 7 stock exchange in our country , Bombay stock exchange is oldest exchange in our country
 


/////////////// Static GK  RRB

1. Special Drawing Rights (SDRs) are often referred to as "paper gold".
2. population growth rate in india decline from 21.54% in 2001 to 17.64% in 2011
3.Japan parliament is known as Diet.
4. A foreign policy of India- IK Gujral , 
  'The Indian Struggle' - Subhash Chandra Bose,
 Wings of air - APJ Abdul kalam ,
 'Glimpses of world History' -Jawaharlal nehru , 'Hind Swaraj' - Mahatma Gandhi , 'WHy i am an atheist'- Bhagat Singh;
 'The Indian War of Independence' is an Indian nationalist history of the 1857 revolt by Vinayak Damodar Savarkar that was first published in 1909.
 - author of the book ‘From Plassey to Partition and After : A History of Modern India’ - Sekhar Bandyopadhyay



5. A hygrometer is the instrument used to measure humidity, or the amount of water vapor in the air.
6. Ernst Ruska, a German electrical engineer, invented the electron microscope in 1931. 
7. Kidney stones consist mostly of 'calcium oxalate'.
8. 'Cotopaxi' is one of the highest active volcanoes in the world, located in the Andes Mountains of Ecuador.
9. The difference between IST (Indian Standard Time) and GMT (Greenwich Mean Time) is 5 hours and 30 minutes. IST is GMT +5:30.
10. Jatin das died in jail due to hunger strike in Lahore jail
11  The Mahalanobis model was the economic development model that guided India's second five-year plan (1956-1961).
12 The Vijay Stambha, or Tower of Victory, is located in Chittor Fort in Chittorgarh, Rajasthan, India. The tower is a monument to the victory of the Rajput king Rana Kumbha of Mewar over the combined armies of Malwa and Gujarat in the Battle of Sarangpur.
13. One of the main objectives of the Fifth Five-Year Plan was to eradicate poverty and attain self-reliance. For this goal, the government under Indira Gandhi came up with the slogan 'Garibi Hatao'.
14. Misch metal(cerium , lanthanum , neodynium) is widely used in the manufacture of cigarette lighters.
15 Lymphocytes, a type of white blood cell, are formed in the bone marrow and thymus, which are called primary lymphoid organs:
16. Popular dance forms of Arunachal Pradesh-  Ponung Dance , Buiya Dance , Wancho Dance , Rikhampada Dance , Pasi Kongki Dance
                                     Chalo Dance ,Popir Dance, Lion and Peacock Dance ,Aji Lhamu Dance ,Rekham Pada Dance
17 The most abundant dissolved ions in the ocean are chloride and sodium
18 The Battle of Haifa was a decisive battle fought on 23 September 1918,, where the elements consisting mainly of Indian troops of the British Army engaged and defeated the forces of the Ottoman Empire and their German allies.
19 Molten salts are a common storage medium for high-temperature solar thermal energy because they can store thermal energy at temperatures ranging from 200°C to beyond 500°C. This process is known as molten salt energy storage (MSES) or molten-salt technology.
20 The first transgenic plant to be produced it Tobbaco. 
21 The International Development Association (IDA) is known as the "soft loan window" of the World Bank
22 NAFED is the apex body in cooperative sector and deals in procurement , distribution, export and import of selected agricultural commodities.
23 Mt Adams a stratovolcano is located in USA(Washington)
24 abu dhabi worlds richest city in terms of sovereign wealth fund.
25 K rammohan Naidu , civil aviation minister of india.
26 Concept of Single citizenship was borrowed from UK constitution.
27 rivers from north to south in himalaya- Shyok-Zaskar-Spiti-Satluj
28 Pulsars are Spinning neutron stars that are the remnants of massive stars that exploded as a supernova
29. Veritas(mission by nasa)- Venus , Juno - Jupiter
30 The most common fiber used to make bulletproof jackets is Kevlar, a synthetic fiber that is about five times stronger than steel: 
31 Tesla humanoid robot name is Optimus , it was launched in year 2022.
32 Seafloor spreading is the process that continually adds new crust to the Earth's surface: 
33 mRNA stands for messenger ribonucleic acid
34 The World Economic Forum (WEF) publishes the Global Gender Gap Index annually. The index was first released in 2006. 
34 The World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) publishes the Global Innovation Index (GII) annually: 
35 The Lisbon Declaration is related to the ocean and space: 
36 Sikkim became the 22nd state of India on May 16, 1975 
37 Taxila university- Mahayana buddhist  , Vikramashila university - Vajrayana Buddhism
38  The port of Surat in India was called Babul Makka, which means "Gate of Mecca", during the Mughal period.
39 Ashta Pradhan was a council of ministers in the Maratha Empire
40 Bodhisattva Padmapani, mural painting by an unknown artist that is believed to date from the late 5th century at Ajanta caves.
41 Ghiyas ud din Balban introduced the Persian festival of Nowruz (or Navroz) to India.
42 The Nathpanthis, Siddhas, and Yogis made devotional religion popular in northern India.
43 Wood's Despatch of 1854 is considered the ‘Magna Carta’ of English Education in India.
--J.E.D. Bethune established the Bethune School to promote women’s education in India by receiving grants under the provisions.
44 Karnata or Karnat dynasty was established by Nanyadev in 1097 CE and was a Maithil dynasty.maithili language began to develop during his rule after the end of pala rule in region and disappearnace of buddhism.
45 The President of India has the power to determine the number of judges in a high court. As per Article 216 of the Indian Constitution, every High Court shall consist of a Chief Justice and such other judges as the President may from time to time deem it necessary to appoint.
46 The President appoints judges to the High Court after consulting with the Chief Justice of India, the Governor of the State, and the Chief Justice of the High Court. 
47 A Reserve Tranche Position (RTP) is the difference between a country's quota in the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the IMF's holdings of that country's currency. It's a member country's external reserve and is calculated as follows:

48 Atmiya sabha by Raja Ram mohan roy,The Tattwabodhini Sabha was a group founded by Debendranath Tagore in Kolkata on October 6, 1839. The Sabha's goal was to spread the knowledge of the Shastras and Vedantas, and to promote a rational and humanist form of Hinduism. 

49 Ambabai, a freedom fighter from Karnataka, was born in the erstwhile Mysore State, which is now part of Karnataka
50 Pangong Lake, also known as Pangong Tso, is the world's highest saltwater lake 
51 Koldihwa is one of the few Neolithic sites in Uttar Pradesh, along with Mahagara. Both sites are located on opposite banks of the Belan River. 
52 Paiyampalli is a village in the Tirupattur district of Tamil Nadu, India. It is known for its Neolithic and Megalithic period excavation site. 
53 Utnur is a Neolithic site in the Adilabad district of Telangana, India. It's known for its ash mounds, which are large piles of burnt earth and ash left behind by Neolithic people who lived in the area around 2000 BCE.
54 The Panchala Mahajanapada had two capitals: Kampilya in the south and Ahichchhatra in the north.
55 Borehole geophysics research laboratory is located in Maharastra.
56 Sarus crane is state bird of UP.
57 The first case of monkeypox in humans was in 1970 in Zaire, which is now the Democratic Republic of Congo. 
58 KABIL(Khanij videsh India Ltd) is a joint venture between between NALCO ,Hindustan copper Ltd, and Mineral Exploration and Consultancy Ltd.
59 Monazite is a mineral that contains rare earths and thorium. It's a phosphate mineral with the chemical formula (Ce, La, Th)PO4.
60 Allahabad Bank india's oldest joint stock bank.
61 Bhopal lake is largest artificial lake of asia.
62 Hemis festival is celebrated in Ladakh.
63 Microbes like Rhizobium, Nitrosomonas and Nitrobacter are used for nitrogen cycling.
64 In 1928 year did India make its Olympic debut in hockey.
65 There are 5 kingdom classification 1. monera 2. protista 3.Fungi 4. Plant  5.Animal. Discovered by Robert Whittaker.
    - Cell wall is present in plant,fungi,monera,protista but not present in Animal(thats why animal skin is soft).
66 Kho-kho was included as a demonstration sport at the Berlin 1936 Olympic Games and at the South Asian Federation (SAF) Games in Calcutta (Kolkata) in 1987.
67 ‘Nuakhai’ is the state festival of Odisha.
68 As per the definition of Census of India, a ‘marginal worker’ is a person who works for less than 183 days a YEAR.
69 Pacific plate is the largest crustal plate on Earth with an area of over 103,000,000 km square.
70 Bipin Singh opened 'Govindji Nartanalaya' dance school for women in Imphal and, in 1972, the 'Manipuri Nartanalaya' dance school in Calcutta.
71 At 14 degree North latitude does the easterly jet stream blow over peninsular India during the summer months.
72 In Madhya pradesh state governments  the Tansen Music Festival organized.
73 As of November 2024, there are 25 High Courts in India:
74 Harela is a festival of greenery, peace, prosperity, and environmental conservation, primarily celebrated in Uttarakhand.
75 Ustad Vilayat Ali Khan is a maestro in Sitar.
76 Tamil Nadu initiated the implementation of the Mid-day Meal scheme in elementary schools.
77 Ravi river is the transboundary river between India and Pakistan.
78 Mohiniyattam(from kerala) is associated with the lasya style of dance. The Hindu god Vishnu is associated with the this dance form Mohiniyattam.
79 National Sports University is situated in Manipur
80 ‘Sangken’ is a festival celebrated in Arunachal Pradesh by people of Buddhist religions.
81 The organisation that Comptroller and Auditor General heads is known as Indian Audit and Accounts Department 
82 The Mahalanobis model was the basis for Second Five-Year Plan.
83 ‘Kuki dance’ is a folk dance of India that is predominantly performed in Nagaland
84 The ‘Lokranjan’ festival celebrates the folk and tribal culture of Madhya Pradesh.

85 Iltutmish introduced two coins, namely silver tanka and copper jital?
86 Ishwar Chandra Vidyasagar suggested the law that the British Government passed in 1856 to support widow remarriage.

87 Which writ is issued by a high court or supreme court when a lower court has considered a case going beyond its
jurisdiction? Prohibition

88  'Hola Mohalla' is a festival associated with Sikh religion/belief.
89 Mawsynrum which receives highest rainfall in the world is located in southern region of Khasi hills.
90 'Yakshagan' is a folk dance of Karnataka.
91  The first Indian Olympic Games was hosted by Lahore.
92  Subansiri, Jia Bharali, Dhansiri and Puthimari are the major tributaries of which river?
93  Vishu festival is celebrated in Kerala and Tamilnadu
94  Rottela Panduga or the Roti Festival is celebrated in Andhra Pradesh.
95  , 

   // Festivals and Dances forms

1. Fugdi dance - Goa 
2. The Cheraw dance is a traditional dance from Mizoram, India. It is also known as the Bamboo Dance.


